NOTES.md, before:

# Instructor Notes

We are going to cover the basics of unit testing.  This includes creating a program to 
simulate dice rolling.  If time permits, we'll also create a program that simulates various 
operations, like reading from a database and parsing some data.  These notes are to help keep me on track, 
and to give you something you can refer to when following along in class.

## IntelliJ Shortcuts

Ctrl Shift T - Switches between test and production code

Ctrl Shift E - Recent files

Alt Shift Ins - Column Mode

## Rolling a Die

What's the first thing we can do when rolling a die?  The most simplest?

Looking at which pip (the dots on the die) is shown when sitting still on a table.  The default pip.

We can check to see if the default is 1.  Most simplest case.

```
public void testDefaultIs1 () {
    // Create new die
    // Assert that pip is 1
    assertThat(die.getPip()).isEqualTo(1);
}
```

Now that we can see that the default is 4, what should be our next steps?
	Dependency Injection

```
public void testSimpleRollOf4() {
    //Stub
    Random random = new Random () {
	    public int nextInt(int bound) {
            return 4;
        }
    }
    
    // Die die = new DieImpl(random);
    // Die rolledDie = die.roll();
    assertThat(die.roll().getPip()).isEqualTo(4);
}
```

Cool.  Now, we rolled the die.  What should we do next?

Check to see if we can roll another 4.

```
public void testSimpleRollOf4Twice() {
    assertThat(die.roll().getPip()).isEqualTo(4)
}
```

We should geta red bar.  What's the problem?

Problem: NPE

Solution: Fix constructor

```
Die(Random random , int pips)
```

At this point in time, it should be a great time to refactor!!

What do you think we can refactor?

1) Make constructor private
2) Make instance fields final

Need to write tests to check

```
public void testSimpleRollOf4WithoutARandom() {
    Die die = new Die();
    assertThat(die.roll().getPips()).isEqualTo(4)
}
```

This produces a NPE.  In the default constructor, what does random do?  What is it?

Remove default constructor to solve problem.  In addition, remove all associated tests.

Integration Tests - End to end testing

Does the thing that I'm testing actually fully work.

```
public void testIntegrationRoll {
    Die die = new Die(new Random());
    
    for (int i = 0; i < 1000000; i++) {
        assertThat(die.roll().getPips()).isGreaterThan(0).isLessThan(7);
    }
}
```

We get a red bar.  We'll never write 100% perfect code.

We can write a new test for this "bug".

```
// Unit Test Tied to JIRA #
public void testBUG1004() {
    // Create mock
    Random random = createMock(Random.class);
    
    // Reherse
    //expect(random.nextInt(anyInt())).andReturn(4);
    expect(random.nextInt(6)).andReturn(4);
    
    // Rewind (EasyMock, not with mockito) - Should probably do this with EasyMock
    replay(random);
    
    // Run test
    Die die = new DieImpl(random); //Subject under test
    // assertThat(die.getPips()).isEqualTo(????) Just temp code
    assertThat(die.roll().getPips()).isGreaterThan(0).isLessThan(7);
    
    // Verify
    verify(random);
}
```

Red bar.  The problem was identified.  Probability of that bug will reoccur is slim.

```
public void testBUG1004With0 {
    // Change bound from 7 to nextInt(7) + 1
}
```

What happens if Random is NULL?

```
public void testRandomShouldNotBeNull() {
    try {
        new Die(null);
    } catch (NullPointerException ex) {
        assertThat(ex).hasMessage("should not be null")
    }
}
```

This produces a Green Bar. It shouldn't create a Green Bar

Correction: 

```
public void testRandomShouldNotBeNull() {
    try {
        new Die(null);
        fail("This should not be here")
    } catch (NullPointerException ex) {  // IllegalArgumentException
        assertThat(ex).hasMessage("should not be null")
    }
}
```

To fix the test, in the public constructor:

If random is null -> throw new IAE with appropriate message

Refactor Time!!

1) Chain constructor

```
public Die(Random random) {
    this (random, 1);
}
```
2) Make error message a constant

Everything is still green.

Can also use Lambdas

```
LambdaDie die = new LambdaDie(() -> 4)
assertThat(die.roll().getPip()).isEqualTo(4)
```

## Library Example

First example was pretty simple.  What happens when the problem is way bigger?

Break big problems into small problems.  If it's easy to solve, it's easy to test.

Commit message:

TEST: example-one-refactor Added alternative to null check.

NOTES.md, after:

# Instructor Notes

We are going to cover the basics of unit testing.  This includes creating a program to 
simulate dice rolling.  If time permits, we'll also create a program that simulates various 
operations, like reading from a database and parsing some data.  These notes are to help keep me on track, 
and to give you something you can refer to when following along in class.

## IntelliJ Shortcuts

Ctrl Shift T - Switches between test and production code

Ctrl Shift E - Recent files

Alt Shift Ins - Column Mode

## Rolling a Die

What's the first thing we can do when rolling a die?  The most simplest?

Looking at which pip (the dots on the die) is shown when sitting still on a table.  The default pip.

We can check to see if the default is 1.  Most simplest case.

```
public void testDefaultIs1 () {
    // Create new die
    // Assert that pip is 1
    assertThat(die.getPip()).isEqualTo(1);
}
```

Now that we can see that the default is 4, what should be our next steps?
	Dependency Injection

```
public void testSimpleRollOf4() {
    //Stub
    Random random = new Random () {
	    public int nextInt(int bound) {
            return 4;
        }
    }
    
    // Die die = new DieImpl(random);
    // Die rolledDie = die.roll();
    assertThat(die.roll().getPip()).isEqualTo(4);
}
```

Cool.  Now, we rolled the die.  What should we do next?

Check to see if we can roll another 4.

```
public void testSimpleRollOf4Twice() {
    assertThat(die.roll().getPip()).isEqualTo(4)
}
```

We should geta red bar.  What's the problem?

Problem: NPE

Solution: Fix constructor

```
Die(Random random , int pips)
```

At this point in time, it should be a great time to refactor!!

What do you think we can refactor?

1) Make constructor private
2) Make instance fields final

Need to write tests to check

```
public void testSimpleRollOf4WithoutARandom() {
    Die die = new Die();
    assertThat(die.roll().getPips()).isEqualTo(4)
}
```

This produces a NPE.  In the default constructor, what does random do?  What is it?

Remove default constructor to solve problem.  In addition, remove all associated tests.

Integration Tests - End to end testing

Does the thing that I'm testing actually fully work.

```
public void testIntegrationRoll {
    Die die = new Die(new Random());
    
    for (int i = 0; i < 1000000; i++) {
        assertThat(die.roll().getPips()).isGreaterThan(0).isLessThan(7);
    }
}
```

We get a red bar.  We'll never write 100% perfect code.

We can write a new test for this "bug".

```
// Unit Test Tied to JIRA #
public void testBUG1004() {
    // Create mock
    Random random = createMock(Random.class);
    
    // Reherse
    //expect(random.nextInt(anyInt())).andReturn(4);
    expect(random.nextInt(6)).andReturn(4);
    
    // Rewind (EasyMock, not with mockito) - Should probably do this with EasyMock
    replay(random);
    
    // Run test
    Die die = new DieImpl(random); //Subject under test
    // assertThat(die.getPips()).isEqualTo(????) Just temp code
    assertThat(die.roll().getPips()).isGreaterThan(0).isLessThan(7);
    
    // Verify
    verify(random);
}
```

Red bar.  The problem was identified.  Probability of that bug will reoccur is slim.

```
public void testBUG1004With0 {
    // Change bound from 7 to nextInt(7) + 1
}
```

What happens if Random is NULL?

```
public void testRandomShouldNotBeNull() {
    try {
        new Die(null);
    } catch (NullPointerException ex) {
        assertThat(ex).hasMessage("should not be null")
    }
}
```

This produces a Green Bar. It shouldn't create a Green Bar

Correction: 

```
public void testRandomShouldNotBeNull() {
    try {
        new Die(null);
        fail("This should not be here")
    } catch (NullPointerException ex) {  // IllegalArgumentException
        assertThat(ex).hasMessage("should not be null")
    }
}
```

To fix the test, in the public constructor:

If random is null -> throw new IAE with appropriate message

Another option is to use requireNotNull method instead of null check.

```
Objects.requireNonNull(random,"Random cannot be null");
```

Refactor Time!!

1) Chain constructor

```
public Die(Random random) {
    this (random, 1);
}
```
2) Make error message a constant

Everything is still green.

Can also use Lambdas

```
LambdaDie die = new LambdaDie(() -> 4)
assertThat(die.roll().getPip()).isEqualTo(4)
```

## Library Example

First example was pretty simple.  What happens when the problem is way bigger?

Break big problems into small problems.  If it's easy to solve, it's easy to test.
