README.md, before:

# unit-test-tutorial

Quick Tutorial for using JUnit to create unit tests. This is a template project built by Matthew Lalmansingh. It has
some base configurations built in to make it easier to start writing useful code.

# Open in an IDE

If you are using IntelliJ IDEA < 13.1, skip to the instructions below.

1. Open command prompt/terminal and navigate to root folder of the project
1. Run the command ```gradlew idea```. If in Bash terminal, ```./gradlew idea```.
1. After you see ```BUILD SUCCESSFUL``` you can open the project in your IDE

## IntelliJ 13.1

More recent versions of IntelliJ IDEA have better support for importing Gradle projects. Simply use the `Import Project` menu option in IntelliJ and you will be good to go.

## Validating Gradle Import

After you run the Gradle Command above,you need to validate your dependency imports.

1. Run the command ```gradlew test```.  
1. Import was successful if you see ```BUILD SUCCESSFUL``` 

## The Gradle Wrapper

The [Gradle wrapper](gradle.org/docs/current/userguide/gradle_wrapper.html) is the recommended method for running a Gradle build. A Gradle wrapper script (`gradlew.bat/sh`) is already included in your project. See the docs for info about upgrading the Gradle version that your project uses.

You can also install [Gradle](gradle.org) on your machine for use outside of your project.

## Technologies

- JUnit 1.4.12 (http://junit.org/junit4/)
- Mockito 1.4.10 (http://mockito.org/)
- EasyMock 3.1 (http://easymock.org/)
- AssertJ 3.6.1 (https://joel-costigliola.github.io/assertj/)
- Powermock 3.9.0 (https://github.com/powermock/powermock)

Commit message:

Updated README to provide relevant information

README.md, after:

# unit-test-tutorial

Quick Tutorial for using JUnit to create unit tests. This is a template project built by Matthew Lalmansingh. It has
some base configurations built in to make it easier to start writing useful code.

# Open in an IDE

If you are using IntelliJ IDEA < 13.1, skip to the instructions below.

1. Open command prompt/terminal and navigate to root folder of the project
1. Run the command ```gradlew idea```. If in Bash terminal, ```./gradlew idea```.
1. After you see ```BUILD SUCCESSFUL``` you can open the project in your IDE

## IntelliJ 13.1

More recent versions of IntelliJ IDEA have better support for importing Gradle projects. Simply use the `Import Project` menu option in IntelliJ and you will be good to go.

<<<<<<< d265e0ed936769679f5084ade78ce7a27e684a53
## Validating Gradle Import

After you run the Gradle Command above,you need to validate your dependency imports.

1. Run the command ```gradlew test```.  
1. Import was successful if you see ```BUILD SUCCESSFUL``` 

>>>>>>> Updated README to provide relevant information
## The Gradle Wrapper

The [Gradle wrapper](gradle.org/docs/current/userguide/gradle_wrapper.html) is the recommended method for running a Gradle build. A Gradle wrapper script (`gradlew.bat/sh`) is already included in your project. See the docs for info about upgrading the Gradle version that your project uses.

You can also install [Gradle](gradle.org) on your machine for use outside of your project.


- JUnit 1.4.12 (http://junit.org/junit4/)
- Mockito 1.4.10 (http://mockito.org/)
- EasyMock 3.1 (http://easymock.org/)
- AssertJ 3.6.1 (https://joel-costigliola.github.io/assertj/)
- Powermock 3.9.0 (https://github.com/powermock/powermock)
=======
## Run Instructions in IntelliJ

To run it inside IntelliJ IDEA:

1 Edit your Run Configurations
2 Add a `Application`
3 Supply a name, like `Run`
4 Point the `Main Application` to your project or Main Java class
5 Run it!

## Technologies

- JUnit 1.4.10 (http://junit.org/junit4/)
- Mockito 1.4.10 (http://mockito.org/)
- EasyMock 3.1 (http://easymock.org/)
>>>>>>> Updated README to provide relevant information
